I use a new AI tool called perplexity
more than chat GPT and more than Google
in my business and today in this episode
of build your tribe I'm going to break
down exactly why you want to use this
tool and how it's going to save you so
much
[Music]
time hey I'm shelene Johnson and thank
you for joining me in this episode of
build your tribe I am somebody who
spends a lot of time doing research a
lot of time Googling things and when
chat GPT hit the scene I'm like what
like this is going to change the game
this is going to save me hundreds of
hours a month and it has so then when
recently a fellow co-worker of mine
suggested that I I look at perplexity I
was like why how could anything possibly
be better than chat GPT I love chat GPT
I a pro user or what do they call it
chat GPT 4 you know I I use the paid
version both perplexity and chat jpt
have a free version and a paid version
and I'm big believer that especially if
you're an entrepreneur these tools save
you so much time and they're going to
save you therefore so much money get the
pro version like it it's going to pay
you back in dividends so when my
co-worker suggested that I try
perplexity I'm like H first of all I
find most of the I'm not very techy so I
usually find them pretty complicated but
I logged in and I was like this looks
too easy it is beautiful it is seamless
I'm we're going to start with all of the
reasons why I love perplexity number one
I find it to be a far superior way to
search just about anything on perplexity
versus Google for example I simply typed
in look at any studies related to
collagen and the Improvement of skin
appearance and or reduction of wrinkles
and what it does is it scans the
internet and not only does it pull up
any information for me it does this
beautiful summary with
citations so I can click and discover
what specifically perplexity is pulling
this information from and it's got this
really cool feature where I can select
Focus for example it's got this Focus
tab where I can say all and it's
searching everywhere on the Internet or
I can specifically select academic and
just search published academic papers
and for certain people certain things
that you need to research that's very
important you know to cite an example or
to cite your source as being um you know
a magazine that's not nearly as credible
as a double blind randomized clinical
trial here's another specific case that
perplexity saved me hundreds of hours I
have a patreon podcast called the schen
show uh there's a level called between
friends and there I recently did a deep
dive looking at some of the intricacies
and nuances that people didn't know
about Dave and Rachel Hollis and what
led to their their rise and then crash
and specifically looking at Dave
hollis's life and as I was doing that
research I quickly found that it was it
was really hard to find a lot of the
information I was spending hours and
hours Googling and looking at different
sites and I discovered that there was so
much information on Reddit but Reddit is
like really going down a rabbit hole and
it felt very um not only timeconsuming
but it was very negative a lot of
content there about their lives it felt
very gossipy and you just had to read
through like reply post reply post reply
post when I was looking for like very
specific things like little trails that
I could follow to research more and
substantiate some of the things I could
find on Reddit well perplexity has a
tool that specifically sorts through
everything on Reddit and then links to
each individual post so I didn't have to
spend hours and hours and hours looking
on Reddit not to say that like reddit's
like typically a source I would normally
be using but for this specific case it
was incredible here's another thing I
love about perplexity it's got a
co-pilot so often times when you're
using chat GPT or any AI it's only as
good as your prompt and if you're not
really good at writing prompts the right
way whatever information is going to
give back to you is only as good as a
prompt that youve ventured so for
example I can ask perplexity what does a
woman over 50 need to focus on in order
to improve her health seems like a
pretty basic question but with co-pilot
it first will make sure that it
understands the question and then it
will ask for additional information so
for example with that query it says what
specific areas of Health are you most
interested in nutrition exercise mental
health menopause heart health now if you
want to skip or select all of those you
can and then continue so let's just go
with menopause and hit continue and it
is finding for me over 20 sources it
lists each one of those sources but then
it also just gives you this really clean
summary
that's easy to understand I just love
the way everything is written out I love
the layout I love how easy it is to read
I love that it's bulleted like I feel
like perplexity was made for me some
additional things I love about
perplexity is that it's ideal for
academic research it's ideal for
Learning and education it will take
lesson plans and it will simulate all
that information for you it's great for
Content development and it's ideal if
you are an entrepreneur who needs to
understand search and optimization we
are using perplexity all the time to
improve our titles descriptions and
keywords for our YouTube content as well
as just about anything else that we're
trying to improve our search engine
optimization like our blogs I love the
way it categorizes all of my past
searches so I can easily go back and
look at information so it's not lost I
personally use the Pro Plan which is $20
a month I think it's slightly discount
if you do the annual okay but here's the
major benefit of doing the pro version
of perplexity when you do the pro
version of perplexity it automatically
gives you chat
gp4 listen I love chat jpt I was paying
for that so I was able to cancel my chat
jpt 4 because now I get it by using the
pro version of perplexity which is $20
so I'm getting both for the same price
now the pro version also includes
unlimited file uploads now you might be
thinking like why would I need to upload
a file well perplexity has this Vision
feature where it can analyze anything
you upload and I there's so many
different use cases don't quote me on
this but I believe it also gives you
unlimited co-piloted searches whatever
the amount is you could never go through
it in a day let's just say that and
those co-piloted searches are so helpful
because that's what gives you the
opportunity to really customize the way
that you are giving prompts to
perplexity and perplexity just like chat
GPT allows you to customize your
experience so you can basically teach
both of these platforms certain things
that it needs to do every single time
you're typing in a query so for example
you can say anytime I'm uh typing in any
type of question assume that I only want
stats sources or research that have been
published in The Last 5 Years or
whenever you respond respond for me in
bulleted form with minimal number of
words and as abbreviated as possible now
the cost for chat GPT is also $20 a
month which gives you access to chat GPT
4 and as I've already told you like you
want to get chat gbt 4 which you can get
by doing the pro version of perplexity
so I'm not even sure why I'm telling you
this but just in case you're like I
don't I don't want anything new I I
already kind of figured out CH GPT I get
it I understand that um but you need to
know that with chat GPT now you have
access to some of their new are they
called integration tools like daily
daily is it's so cool you can basically
tell daily I think that's how you say it
what you can describe what type of logo
you're looking for and it will create it
for you it will create this crazy image
for you so I asked daily to create a
logo for my friend Monica who's really
good at saving people money by knowing
how to return things and not being taken
advantage of and oh my God it's so funny
the logos that it came up with for me so
that's been really fun is using it for
that I in fact I recently was like I I
need numbers that look like big gold
balloons and I I kept searching on
Google Images I couldn't find those and
so I had daily create those for me and I
used those which is amazing it's really
important to get the most out of either
one of these platforms but especially
for those of you using chat GPT to make
sure that you tailor your experience and
personalizing it is going to make this
process even faster and more efficient
for you so for example if you're a
wellness coach you can give chat GPT
Specific Instructions so that it always
knows how to respond to certain client
interactions or you can also use chat
GPT to summarized text I love this I
mean you can paste in pages and pages
and Pages it feels like when chat GPT
first when I first discovered chat GPT
there they seemed like a a real short
limit to the number of words that you
could paste in even with the pro version
but now I've pasted in like I don't know
at least 20 pages and asked Chachi BT to
summarize it and that's a wonderful way
especially if you're a podcaster or if
you're somebody who regularly creates
content one thing you can do is just put
in transcripts from your p podcast and
have chat PT summarize it and then you
record an updated version of that same
topic without having to read through or
relisten to your past pieces of content
just summarize it update it and boom
you're creating content faster than ever
I also love using chpt or perplexity to
reverse check my facts I can type in a
fact like um wearing a weighted vest
while walking helps to improve bone
density for women over 5050 and I can
ask chat GPT to find sources to to
support that fact now again I'm very
biased I am much happier with the way
it's laid out and the efficiency of
perplexity so if I haven't already
convinced you first of all you need to
be using AI to speed up the process of
your business to make life easier for
you to have more credible sources number
one and number two if I had to choose
one or the other I would highly highly
recommend perplexity until something
better comes along and if you would like
for me to do a complete breakdown of
different case studies of ways that you
can use perplexity to speed up your
workflow every single week I would be
happy to give you more specific examples
and if you'd like for me to give you a
full tutorial of how to use perplexity
or AI in general like how to write
prompts um let me know in our comments
in the meantime I'd love for you to
check out this previous episode that we
did on chat GPT I will link to that
previous episode in our show notes and
as always thank you so much for tuning
in to build your tribe if you haven't
please make sure that you have
subscribed to our Channel we really do
appreciate it Brock and I and we are
very excited to produce the type of
content that best serves you as the
entrepreneur thank you for liking thank
you for leaving a comment and thank you
for making sure that you're subscribed
it is our goal to be brief to be bright
to make it fun and then be done we're
done
[Music]
oh